---
layout: post
title: Technical Debt
date: 2019-10-16 13:32:20 +0300
description: Technical Debt
img: i-techd.jpeg
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [tech-debt]
---
# Tech Debt
The basic definition of the tech debt could be as simple as doing something quickly then properly.

# Types:
We can categorized tech debt in  below categories:
1. Code Debt
2. Architectural Debt
3. Knowledge Debt
4. Test Debt
5. Technological Debt

## Code Debt
Signs to identify Code debt:  
- Complicated Code
    - large classes
    - long methods
    - logic with complicated expression
    - several level of identation
    - cryptic names
    - no comments or worthless comments
    - Solution:
        - Wrtting code for developers not for computer.
        - WRITE clean code.

- CUT and PASTE coding
    - code smell
- Tight coupling between components
    - hard to change relationships

> Warning Sign:  
> large time to get the code which need to change, tight coupling.  
> 1 hr of written code is 10 hrs of reading code.

## Architectural Debt
Signs to identify architectural debt:  
- Lack of the design
- Requirements are going to change over the time
- Not possible to anticipate the future features
- Solution  
    - Initial architecture not going to be perfect, it should be flexible.
    - Missing Layer: Do not combine layers. eg : presentation + bussiness in the same layer.
    - Missing extensibility Points: to allow new feature to plug in easily. OPEN and CLOSE principle.
    - Overlooked Concerns: security, scalability, performance.

> Warning Sign:  
> saying can't be done  
> hacking new feature-in
> doing it anyway assuming the customer wont notice.

## Knowledge Debt
Signs to identify knowledge debt:  
- Its tech Debt of Skill in simple words.
- lack of skill set in the tech stack used in the team, however the team is still delivering features.
- more copy-paste from intenet; without understanding
- Solution:
    - Keep on finding gaps between the skillset in the team and tech stack used
    - use well tested constructs

## Test Debt
Signs to identify test debts:  
- not thorough test cases.
- missing code quality checks and tools
- not well written unit tests, missing coverage
- Solution:
    - Follow TDD approach
    - Write failing unit test case first
    - Write enough code that make the test pass

## Technological Debt
Todo  
  

> Improving is a never-ending journey. Perfection is a state that cannot be achieved – we will always strive for it. The important thing is not to stay behind.

Stay tuned for the updates!!

